Hey friends, I want to
welcome a new sponsor, text
control.com. It's really amazing stuff.
Text control is a deep
functionality component vendor. They're the
creators of TX text control.
It's a word inspired document
editor library. It's a document
processing engine for your apps.
It's fully customizable, fully programmable,
and it's available for most
platforms. That means asp.net, MVC,
web forms, windows forms, WPF.
Recently, they actually released an
angular and no JS version
so they can integrate their
Wiziwig document editing into your
web applications. Now, a typical
application for this would be
like mail merge or a
blog or somewhere where like
an ms word compatible template
gets merged, you know, with
some Jason data on the
client or even pure service
side apps where you can
create an Adobe PDF document.
It's really amazing. And what
I love about it is
that you can go and
check out a live demo,
text control.com/demos, text control.com. It
is a full, like basically
word in your browser. Documented
in creation, collaboration on any
platform. Really, really easy for.net
folks to integrate. I was
really impressed and I'm really
happy to have them as
a sponsor. Alright, this is
Scott Hanselman. This is another
episode of Hansel minutes. Today.
I'm talking with Yvonne Marcus,
she's the host of your
agile home podcast that helps
you develop flexible home management
solutions. How are you? How
are you? I am very
well. And I'm excited to
chat with you. You and
I are both podcasters and
we are also parents. I,
of course you folks know
I work from home. So
at some point the boys
will burst in, in the
middle and interrupt this podcast
and probably cause all kinds
of trouble. So I'm always
interested in new ways to,
to parent. And you have
some ideas around that. Oh,
absolutely. I, I am so
excited about using agile at
home because I found that
just asking my kids for
solutions to their own problems,
opened us up to a
world. I didn't even know
existed inside their heads. How
do we do things now?
Or are we just doing
waterfall style project management with
our lives at home? Absolutely.
I believe that parenting is
sort of the last great
waterfall. Like it just kind
of keeps going. It's been
kind of parents telling kids
what to do and then
kids following through or often
not following through with the
instructions because you know, how
many times have you told
your kids to go put
their laundry in the hamper?
And it's not happened Every
single time. Yeah. And that,
that sort of continues to
happen when I'm using agile,
but it'll at least now
I know that like moving
the laundry to a different
location solved that problem, 75%
of the time. Okay. So
are you, is this a
fail fast fail often thing?
Cause I have the fail
fast fail often part down
where everything is just a
big pile of fail at
this point. That happens quite
a bit. Yes. But we
do find active solutions to
problems, which is, which is
good. But yes, we do
fail a lot and hard,
but the good news is,
is that that failure then
creates that feedback loop. That's
so important to be able
to move on to a
new solution quickly. And I
find that the quickly is
the biggest, most important thing
because you know, if you
sit there and you're like
this solution, this problem doesn't
have a solution. And you
just keep living with the
system that you're using. Now,
if you kind of are
married to that, then you
start to feel like a
failure or like you're a
bad parent instead of coming
up with a solution that
actually works and then being
able to feel good about
that problem being Right. We've
talked about this on the
podcast before the idea of
letting life happen by default
and we all get overwhelmed
and it's okay to be
overwhelmed, whether it be in
your personal life, if you
don't have kids or if
kids are in your life,
like they are in ours,
if you just do nothing,
that is a decision that
is the default and the
default is, is waterfall. And
it's just kind of like
slowly dealing with these things
and letting things happen. But
you, if we back up
a little bit, have a
background in operations and business
operations and basically getting, getting
things done in business. And
then when you went to
be a stay at home
mom slash CEO home systems,
strategist, right? You have a
business to manage. You also
have these little, these small
people to manage. What made
you say I'm going to
go and take those operations
skills and agile and apply
it to that, the management
of the house, Because you
are running a small business,
whether you like to think
of it that way or
not, you are running a
house and it has to
be ran in a way
that is efficient and that
works. And that, you know,
just sort of manages different
personalities, manages different people's time
constraints and just different people's
strengths and weaknesses. Because one
of the things I like
to talk about is like
chores. When you give your
kids chores and you just
assign them Willy nilly, it
might not be something that
is like their strong suit
at there or that they're
going to do well. Whereas
if you sit down with
the list of all the
chores that are done in
your house, Hi friend, aye.
Hey buddy, I'm doing a
show right now. Okay. Thank
you friend. I told you
that would happen, but this
is the one show I
won't have to edit that
out of because the boys
just got home from school
and ignored the light. Yeah,
of course Their strengths, right.
Is the idea Into their
strengths, letting them self assign
tasks. I mean, even as
adults, their chores, we don't
like to do. Right. And
we don't have to do
them. We should know how.
And I think that kids
should learn how to like
unload the dishwasher. But if
they're going to break all
of your dishes, because they're
just not thinking about it
and they're just kind of
Willy nilly, throwing things places,
is it really something that
you want them to do?
Longterm Your skill. You have
to have a, a one
on one with HR and
the employee or the child
and say, this is a
skill that we don't think
you have right now. We're
going to assign that to
someone else. Exactly. And then
I, you know, you just
kind of let them decide
what they're going to be
good at right now. And
then you teach them how
to do all of the
things. But in life we
are not set up so
that like I have to
cook dinner every night. And
that's probably the real reason
I started this business is
because to me, the problem
in parenting has been overall
in society. We expect mom
to be in charge of
hashtag all the things. Right.
I think being at home
is a largely gendered thing
in Western culture. No question.
Yeah. And I was like,
I can't do this. I
don't want to be in
charge of all the things.
I don't want my kids
to be raising me in
charge of all the things.
So therefore I have to
start some sort of revolution,
even if it's just in
my house. But then it
led to me creating this
business in order to help
it sort of move along
to give people some instruction
on how to get from
point a to point B
of just being harried and
chaotic all the way to
being like, Oh, I've got
this down because we're having
a daily standup where we
all go over our schedule.
So you call this agile
home management or the, you
know, the agile home, your
agile home is the name
of the podcast. Are we
talking about like a morning,
scrum? Like, you know, at
work, we get up at
9:00 AM. We have our scrum
meeting, are you doing that?
It's a little bit different.
Every morning. We basically stand
across the counter from each
other and we do stand
up and we talk about
just what's on the schedule
for the day. We don't
really kind of go over
what didn't get completed yesterday
because you know, there's always
going to be something, but
if it's not on our
sprint, then we just kind
of, don't worry about it.
It kind of gets pushed
back onto the backlog. But
we do get together every
morning and sort of look
at what time we have
meetings so that we know
one, whether or not we
can be in the same
room at the time of
the meeting, or if I
need to go pick up
the kids from school or
my husband needs to go
pick up the kids from
school and who's doing drop
off. And those sorts of
things so that we just
know who can be where
at what time, and if
somebody has more on their
plate that day, then maybe
somebody else has to pick
up more of the Slack
or that's a night that
we decide to go out
to dinner. That is a
really good point. The idea
of collective ownership is fundamental
to agile. So in software
it's like, there's you own
this or you own that.
But we always talk about
the idea where we all
have collective ownership of the
positive of the forward motion
of the project. And when
you formally decide as a
family, all right, like we're
all in this together. Let's
just make sure that we
say that out loud. You
just said something great where
one person has more on
their plate than the other.
And they go, Oh, I
can take that today. You
know, you're not keeping score.
You're really trying to load
balance the load across the
family members and build to
their strengths. I think that's
great. Yeah. It's absolutely 100%
about being on a team
because as a family, that's
what you want to be.
So we got together and
we had the kids involved
in and we set our
family values and we set
a mission statement. I'm in,
we live by that. So
like before something even goes
on our schedule, it's does
this align with our values
and our mission statement. And
if it doesn't, then we
say no, and then everybody's
on the same page about
why we say, And that's
really cool because you emailed
me to be on the
show. After listening to my
episode with my wife, where
we talked about mission statements.
And you mentioned when you
emailed me that it was
nice to know that you
weren't the only family that
had a mission statement. Exactly.
Because it sounds so nerdy
when you like sit down
and you actually write it.
But then like when you
hear other people are doing
it, you're like, Oh, maybe
this is catching on a
little bit. So he is,
I mean, it's super important
because we don't want our
family to be top down
leadership. Right? Like we did
talk about a little bit
of the historic historical things,
run gender roles and the
positive things and the negative
things, you know, there's both
positive and negative, but it's
certainly not top down management.
Right? It's not, I set
the tone or my wife
sets the tone, right. It
is, we set the tone
as parents and our, our,
our children, our team members,
subordinates with team members and
also really mediocre roommates as
well, always. But it is,
it's so good to be
able to like, have them
be a collaborative member of
the team. And for them
to just know, I mean,
our family mission statement is
really, really just pop culture.
Things that we remember. And
we say frequently versus us
actually writing a mission statement,
but it's stuff that the
kids have heard us say
over and over again. I'm
like, I don't know if
you know the tub thumping,
but shamba Womba, I'm afraid
I do please don't get
as stuck in my head.
So that, that chorus is
something that we end up,
we start it and the
kids will finish it because
it's, you know, we, we
know that we have to
lift each back up after
we have a fall. Okay.
Okay. So the mission statement
sets the tone, but are
you changing your, your sprints,
right? We usually have named
sprints or, or themes for
each of our sprints as
we, as we move through
time. Yes. So we, at
the, at the beginning of
a two week period, we
sit down and we map
out what we're going to
get done in the next
two weeks. And for us,
it's really just kind of
a list of either projects
that we want to get
done or appointments that we
know that we need to
do that are not either
set yet, or we don't
really know where they fall
into the schedule or that
sort of thing yet, but
we put them up. Actually
we use deck board.com in
order to display it on
a television screen in our
house, along with our schedule,
I am a huge fan
of dashboard. So you gotta,
I mean, I don't want
to be the one that
tells people about that, but
you've got to talk about
how deck board is a
game changer for families. Oh,
deck board is phenomenal. I,
every time I get on
a client call, I recommend
deck board because it's just
so easy to put together
because of the drop in
drag features. And also it's
just easy to reset up.
Like I don't have to
be a technology expert in
order to go in and
figure out how to put
a countdown or how to
put my schedule up. I
just go and get like
the icon link for my
calendar and zoom. There it
is. And then everybody can
see it and making the
work visible is the biggest
game changer in parents. That
is really significant. So for
folks that might not understand
what we're talking about, a
DAC board, it's da K
board, we'll put a link
in the show notes and
I've got a detailed explanation
on my blog about how
one can make their own
deck board. It is literally
as easy as taking any
random monitor or computer monitor
that you have lying around.
I got one for 20
bucks at Goodwill. I took
the, I happened to take
the base off of it.
So it's just to kind
of a picture frame. And
then I put a raspberry
PI tiny computer inside it,
and I hung it on
the wall in the kitchen
and put it on the
wifi. And that was it.
And like you said, from
there on you do all
the management on their web
interface, right? Yes. And we
use a television screen that
we inherited, so it was
free. But before we got
the television screen, we used
an iPad. See, and these
are the things we have
these things lying around or
we've inherited them and you
and I have my intern
off at night. So it
saves power and things like
that. And we've got on
ours, we've got the weather,
we've got countdowns to major
events and things we're excited
about. We've also recently added
children's homework and color-coded it
in different Google calendars. Oh,
that's super cool. I love
that. My kids don't have
homework yet. Cause they're Preschoolers
soon. It will, it will
sneak up on you. And
then of course, so I'm
going to have to keep
That in mind. Absolutely. And
then when the, when the
boys got their iPads for
school, we put Google calendar
on it and then we
have them enter their homework.
And then we have four
Google calendars for me and
mom and the two kids.
And then they, we color
coded it. They add their
homework, drop it in and
then it automatically appears on
the screen. And then of
course, I've mentioned this on
the show before, I'm a
type one diabetic and I
travel. So we actually have
my blood sugar as a,
an item as a thing
on the dashboard board. And
this is a, an important
metric for people to glance
at. And the kids can
see how daddy's doing, even
though he's not there. I
love that I have a,
also have an autoimmune disease,
but it is fibromyalgia. So
not very visible period. And
so the kids can't have
really a visual for that,
but it's good to know
that there is a way
to implement a health metrics
on the dashboard. There is.
And you could do all
kinds of fun things like,
you know how, when you,
like, I was at the
Chicago airport recently and you
leave the bathroom and there's
like, how was your experience?
And there's like three buttons,
smiley face kind of medium
face or sad face, or
you leave target. And there's
like, did you have a
good experience? Thumbs up, thumbs
down. You could build something
like that and have the
kids like how was your
day? And the kid could
like push a button and
then it could have, you
could have the pictures of
the kids on the deck
board with a happy kid
and a sad kid. And
then you can glance at
the screen and tell whether
or not the kid was
happy or not. That'd be
a fun project to make
over a weekend. You can
do anything, any status, right?
That is important to your
project, to your original point
around being agile. What are
our metrics of success for
our scrum? I love that.
I'm one of the things
that that reminded me of
is what we do for
the kids. Daily, standup is
a visual schedule, which just
tells them everything that they
need to do in order
to like, get ready to
go to school in the
morning, or to get ready
for bed at night. This
cut down on probably 90%
of nagging and arguments, because
now it's just go look
at your board and because
the board is in charge,
they don't get mad at
me. So this is really
about redirecting their anger towards
the boss, to the, to
the man, the larger system,
right. You know, sticking it
to the man. Exactly. And
this works for older kids
as well. Cause a lot
of times you can just
do like a check board
done or needs to be
done. You know, if it's
a larger thing that they
might have to do several
steps, you could bake an
in progress portion. Sounds like
a more sophisticated kind of
software engineering perspective on, you
know, the gold star system,
right? Where you get a
white board or you get
a dry erase marker and
you get some stickers and
it's a big old checklist,
but it's all about visible
work. Exactly. And making the
work visible is, I mean,
I can't even say often
enough how important that is
because when the work is
visible, everybody in your family
understands how much your doing
any member. And it does
help with just like picking
up the Slack or even
just being understanding if somebody
is having sort of a
day or they're in a
bad mood, you can kind
of look at their day
and be like, Oh, I
can see that. Maybe they
were a little spint. And
so they were kind of
cranky. Hi friends as a
programmer, you think an object's
with Mongo DB sodas, your
database, Mongo DB is the
most popular document based database
built for modern application developers
on the cloud era, millions
of developers use Mongo DB
to power. The world's most
innovative products and services from
cryptocurrency to online gaming IOT
and more, you can try
Mongo DB today with Atlas,
the global cloud database service
that runs on AWS Azure
and Google cloud configure, deploy
and connect to your database
in just a few minutes,
check it out at Mongo
db.com/atlas that's M O N
G O D b.com/atlas. The,
the thing that we've been
doing at work recently is
this thing called objective key
results. Okay. Ours is kind
of another way of thinking
about what our tasks are
and whether or not they're
successful. So it's one thing
to check a box, but
another thing to do a
task and then measure it.
Is there any kind of
success metrics as a family?
Like, you know, it's one
thing to say, I got
the groceries, but you know,
did it go well, or
am I measuring how things
went, maybe groceries. Aren't a
good example, but I think
you get where I'm right.
Yeah. So we do at
the end of our sprint,
have a retro where we
kind of ask, like what
worked for our family, the
sprint and what didn't work
for our family, this sprint,
but we don't kind of
do a daily, like this
is kind of what went
well or didn't go well.
But at the end of
a sprint, we do evaluate
what worked for us as
a whole family. Cause maybe
something worked for one person,
but it didn't work for
somebody else. I find that
this becomes a bigger deal
when you're talking about self
care, because when you're trying
to find time to go
and spend by yourself, sometimes
the time that you choose
doesn't work for the rest
of your family and you
kind of have to tweak
when that happens, but everyone
should be doing self care.
But the thing that I
always like to say is
it is not the answer.
It will not solve your
problem because I don't know
how many times I've gone
off to like have a
bath or read a book
and the problems that were
already facing me. Just feel
either monumental when I get
done with my self care
time or it's all I
can think about while I'm
doing it. Yeah. That is
true. I mean, self care
is important just for our
sanity, but it does certainly
it was not gonna make
any problems go away. You
just ignore him for a
few minutes. Absolutely. Now there
was a, I think the
Ted talk that you probably
saw of the people have
seen before Bruce Feiler has
a book called the secrets
of happy families and he
talks about scrum being potentially
the savior of the modern
American family. Do we think
that this little bit of
structure that we're talking about
is the thing that is
the missing piece for our
busy lives and our connected
lives? I certainly think so.
I mean the amount of
significant increase on happiness and
increase in efficiency, decrease in
budget that I have seen
since we started using agile
is, is huge. My toddlers
are certainly more excited that
we're asking them for their
input because often four and
five year olds aren't asked
and they love to give
you their opinion. You know?
And that's an interesting one
because as with all we
won't call them junior engineers,
your four and five year
olds, we'll call them early
career engineers as early career
young people, right. They, their
opinion matters, but there still
is a business problem that
needs to be solved here.
So for example, my, my
12 year old hates going
shopping, but the option is
don't eat. So we try
to explain it to them
like, okay, this is some,
you know, some distasteful work
that needs to be done.
This is a piece of,
of work. That's no fun,
but the, the goal is,
you know, eat. So, you
know, how do you want
to solve that? A lot
of times how I solved
that is one asking a
way that we can make
going to the grocery store,
more fun or asking if
there is an alternative solution.
So like my five-year-old can't
go to the grocery store.
It's too overwhelming for him.
So usually one parent stays
home and the other parent
goes to the store and
that may change as he
gets older because he may
not be as overwhelmed by
the store. But sure. That
gets to your point about
building to your strengths, right?
Maybe they could prep the
kitchen to receive the food
as it comes home soon.
Yes, Exactly. And there's always
something that they can do
to feel like they are
participating in the family, whether
or not it be the
main task that you would
really like for them to
do. And obviously sometimes my
five-year-old has to go to
the grocery store and when
he does, we just try
and like sing songs and
dance and just make it
fun even while we're in
the store, even if everybody's
kind of looking at us
like we're crazy. Well, and
the thing to remember is
that if we, if we
take this agile system or
analogy to the, to the,
the, the, the fullest extent,
right, at its core, it
is about each team member
having an equal contribution to
the project, right. Everyone has
a piece of this project
in this case, the family.
So everyone's contribution is valued.
And, you know, even hanging
out with the family and
being chill at the, at
the grocery store is a
valuable thing because it made
your job easier. You know,
getting groceries, if they're freaking
out, that's not helpful. And
I think it's also just
important for them to see.
So like at the meeting,
when we talked about the
grocery store and trying to
go there, we literally wrote
down every idea that they
came up with. So it
might have been like the
silliest idea and it might
have seemed to crazy to
us, but you just write
it down anyway. And then
at the end of the
meeting, kind of go through
all of the options and
you come up with the
one that is mutually desirable
and physically feasible. Interesting. Okay.
And what do we have
kids of different ages? Sometimes
I'll mention to my wife
that we should ask the
12 year old something, a
formerly 11 year old, and
she'll say, well, you know,
he doesn't know he's 12
and what can we, you
know, what, what's his contribution
going to be? How do
you know whether to really
value their opinion or to
just dismiss it? Sometimes I
just, I just write it
down anyway. And then when
we come to the end,
when we're having the discussion,
we'll say this doesn't work
for me because, and then
we give sort of a
brief explanation as to why
that doesn't work for us.
For us. It's super brief
because I have a two
year old and a four
year old and there'll be
three and five next month.
Crazy. Cause it just seems,
yeah, It only, it only
accelerates, I tell you that,
but there are people who
say that and perhaps rightfully
so that children are not
tiny humans. They're not tiny
adults, they are children. And
they could argue that they
don't have logic. You know,
I wonder what, what's a
good amount of structure. What's
a good amount of logic.
And what's a, what's just
good old fashioned parenting. Like,
Oh, tell him, just tell
the kid what to do.
How do you balance that?
So I am mostly, we
just are super collaborative here.
And the reason being is
because I'm trying to teach
them how to deal with
being collaborative in the future.
But also like there are
just somethings that you just
have to do. So then
we just sort of explain
why we have to do
it. And then we sort
of tell them, you know,
afterwards, we might be able
to do this fun thing,
but we have to do
this thing first. And you
know, that's just how life's
going to be. Sometimes like
sometimes you're not going to
like hanging out with a
certain person or you're going
to have a hard boss,
or you're not going to
want to go to the
grocery store or you're going
to want to do something
fun versus something that you
have to do, like study
in college. But sometimes you
just have to make these
hard choices or you have
to do these things that
are not your favorite in
order to be able to
do something. That's your favorite
later, Right? You talked about
a little bit about this
in episode 41 of your
podcast in December last year,
the idea of holding firm
on boundaries. So someone might
be listening to this podcast
and thinking that this is
some weird squishy stuff that,
you know, Yvonne and Scott
are talking about learning to
do agile and the kids
are going to collaborate two
year old doc, but we're
not saying no boundaries. We're
not saying that the kids
do anything that they want
to wish. There's still a
leadership structure here, but it
is a very collaborative and
positive way. And I find
the ed actually leaves me
more in charge because I've
asked the kids for their
opinion. They're much more likely
to do things. When I
say, well, we just have
to do this right now.
We to go the grocery
store because it's something that
we have to do in
order to stock the pantry.
And I can't take you
home or, you know, daddy's
out of town. So it's
just being you and we
all have to go, right.
They're just much more amicable
to going because they don't
have to feel like they're
never heard. Right. That's a
good point if you are
spending every single day saying,
because I said so, which
we all agreed as when,
when we were kids was
a really lousy answer because
I said, so is an
answer. It's just not the
awesome one. But if you
get a voice more often
than not than when you,
when the time comes along
and it's like, well, we
just need to get the
groceries. They'll okay. All right.
Well, they hear me on
most things, but I recognize
I'm starting to recognize that
this grocery thing we do
every week is pretty important
and they take your word
for it. Yeah, exactly. And
also just, even on things
that are like discipline, you
know, we actually had a
problem with the bathroom and
like going to the bathroom
and not like sitting under
the table and pretending like
you don't have to go.
So we had a conversation
about like, what would you,
Plastic project management issue. I
tell ya. Yeah. So it's
like, what would make this
easier? And then we had
a discussion where we asked
him what would make it
easier for him to just
not want to hide or
just get up and go.
And you know, the solution
was that maybe he could
have his tablet while he
went to the bathroom for
a few minutes in order
to focus on something else,
rather than the fact that
he's sitting there with nothing
to do. And that's worked
like we have, we're not
having this fight anymore. I
mean, it's a weird fight
to feel like you're having,
but I know so many
parents, especially of toddlers and
early elementary school kids who
are there, Let me tell
you with a 12 year
old and a 14 year
old, you would be surprised
how many scrums, we'll say,
how many sprints are bathroom
related sprints. It does not
get any better. There may
be less cleanup, but it's
a different kind of cleanup.
And there's socks on the
ground, in the bathroom right
now. And you know, I'm
not going to pick them
up. So I'm afraid that
they are lousy roommates, their
entire lives. So you're going
to expect another 16 to
18 years of bathroom related
scrums. That's good to know.
So we're not alone. Anybody
out there listening, you are
definitely not alone. So you've
been on a, you have
your own podcast and you've
been on a couple of
other podcasts, like the nurturing
habitat and Bosch mom talking
about agile home management. And
you're turning this into a
business as well. Yes, because
I found that even people
who use agile every single
day, it didn't really know
how to bring it up.
It's not an obvious thing
until you kind of start
exploring and going, Oh, I
could see how I could
run my house. Like a
project. It wasn't immediately intuitive
to me that we had
been doing this. Maybe not
as effectively as you had,
but until I started really
thinking about it, it didn't
seem intuitive. Yeah. I mean,
and it seems hard because
you're used to doing it
one way. And then when
you try and think of
how you would do it
at home or how you
would shift it a little
bit, it's not automatically obvious
what that shift would be.
For instance, our daily stand
ups are essentially just like
going over the schedule. Whereas
like, you know, your daily,
standup at work would be
a little bit more involved
than that because you're working
in an environment where other
people are dependent on the
stuff that you didn't finish
the day before in order
to move forward onto something
they need to do. Whereas
that maybe isn't the case
at home. Right. And at
home it'll be very age
dependent. My son's working on
a report right now that
might be our scrum and
it might have some, you're
not doing something one day
might have some future ramifications,
but you know, five-year-olds might
not have that much persistence
of, of objects that a,
that a 14 year old
would. Yeah, exactly. Alright. Well,
folks can check you out
at Yvonne Marcus. That's why
V O N N E
Marcus, M a R C
U S. We'll make sure
to put links in the
show notes to your website
and to your Facebook community
and your podcast. Thank you
so much for chatting with
me today about being agile
at home. Thank you for
having me. This has been
another episode of Hanselminutes and
we'll see you again next
week. .